# Contributing to the Triton FIL backend

## How to Contribute
You can help improve the Triton FIL backend in any of the following ways:
- Submitting a bug report, feature request or documentation issue
- Proposing and implementing a new feature
- Implementing a feature or bug-fix for an outstanding issue

### Bug reports
When submitting a bug report, please include a *minimum* *reproducible*
example. Ideally, this should be a snippet of code that other developers can
copy, paste, and immediately run to try to reproduce the error. Please:
- Do include import statements and any other code necessary to immediately run
  your example
- Avoid examples that require other developers to download models or data
  unless you cannot reproduce the problem with synthetically-generated data

### Code Contributions
To contribute code to this project, please follow these steps:
1. Find an issue to work on or submit an issue documenting the problem you
   would like to work on.
2. Comment on the issue saying that you plan to work on it.
3. Review the implementation details section below for information to help you
   make your changes in a way that is consistent with the rest of the codebase.
4. Code!
5. Create your pull request.
6. Wait for other developers to review your code and update your PR as needed.
7. Once a PR is approved, it will be merged into the main branch.

#### Signing Your Work
* We require that all contributors "sign-off" on their commits. This certifies that the contribution is your original work, or you have rights to submit it under the same license, or a compatible license.
  * Any contribution which contains commits that are not Signed-Off will not be accepted.
* To sign off on a commit you simply use the `--signoff` (or `-s`) option when committing your changes:
  ```bash
  $ git commit -s -m "Add cool feature."
  ```
  This will append the following to your commit message:
  ```
  Signed-off-by: Your Name <your@email.com>
  ```
* Full text of the DCO:
  ```
    Developer Certificate of Origin
    Version 1.1
    
    Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.
    1 Letterman Drive
    Suite D4700
    San Francisco, CA, 94129
    
    Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
  ```
  ```
    Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1
    
    By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:
    
    (a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the open source license indicated in the file; or
    
    (b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same open source license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or
    
    (c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.
    
    (d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the open source license(s) involved.
  ```

## Workflow
This repo provides scripts for building the Triton server Docker image as well
as a test image which can be used to validate the server image. These images
can be built in both CPU-only and GPU-enabled modes, and it is important to
ensure that both builds work correctly.

The simplest way to do this is to use the `ci/local/build.sh` script, which
will build images for both modes, generate example models to use with them, and
run all available tests. For more rapid iteration, it is sometimes useful to
perform these steps separately, however, and each step is described below in
further detail.

Note that each run of `ci/local/build.sh` will generate uniquely-named log
files in `qa/logs`. Therefore, it may be helpful to periodically clean out this
directory. Example models are cached between runs, but developers may force
regeneration of models by setting the environment variable `RETRAIN=1`.

**For most development workflows, it is recommended that you simply invoke
`./ci/local/build.sh`. The following details are provided only if this script
does not meet your specific workflow needs.**

### Build
To build the server image, test image, or both, developers may invoke the
`build.sh` script in the root of the repo. By default, both the server image
and test image are generated, but just the server image may be generated by
specifying the `server` target (`./build.sh server`). Using the `--cpu-only`
flag will invoke CPU-only mode for the build. Remember that a CPU-only build
cannot handle GPU-enabled models during testing.

For most development workflows, the FIL backend is built on top of an existing
Triton server image, but it may be useful to test a build of the entire server
image using Triton's own build infrastructure. For this purpose, `build.sh` can
also be invoked with the `--buildpy` flag, which will invoke Triton's
`build.py` script on the current FIL backend branch. Note that this requires
that the branch be pushed to the FIL backend Github repo, so it is typically
only invoked by internal developers and CI to confirm that there are no
incompatibilities with Triton's build infrastructure.

For rapid iteration on build issues, it can be helpful to build a Docker image
right up to the point of the `cmake` invocation and then use it to manually
perform builds of the FIL backend library. To do so, the following may be
performed from the root of the repo:
```bash
$ DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker build --target=build-prep -f ops/Dockerfile -t fil_build .
$ docker run --gpus all --rm -it \
    -p 8000:8000 -p 8001:8001 -p 8002:8002 \
    -v $PWD/src:/rapids_triton/src -v $PWD/cmake:/rapids_triton_cmake \
    -v $PWD/qa/L0_e2e/model_repository:/models
    -v $PWD/qa/L0_e2e/cpu_model_repository:/cpu_models
    fil_build
$ # You are now inside the Docker container
$ cmake \
    --log-level=VERBOSE \
    -GNinja \
    -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
    -DBUILD_TESTS=OFF \
    -DTRITON_CORE_REPO_TAG=main \
    -DTRITON_COMMON_REPO_TAG=main \
    -DTRITON_BACKEND_REPO_TAG=main \
    -DTRITON_ENABLE_GPU=ON \
    -DTRITON_ENABLE_STATS=ON \
    -DBUILD_CUML_TESTS=OFF \
    -DBUILD_PRIMS_TESTS=OFF \
    -DBUILD_CUML_MG_TESTS=OFF \
    -DBUILD_CUML_EXAMPLES=OFF \
    -DBUILD_CUML_BENCH=OFF \
    -DBUILD_CUML_PRIMS_BENCH=OFF \
    -DCUML_CPP_ALGORITHMS=FIL \
    -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/rapids_triton/install \
    ..;
$ ninja install
```
You may then modify source on the host system and repeatedly run `ninja
install` inside the Docker container until you are satisfied with the build. By
binding the indicated ports, you can also run
`tritonserver --model-repository=/models` and test the functionality of the
server from the host system. To test example CPU-only models,
`tritonserver --model-repository=/cpu_models` may be invoked instead.

Note that this process will bind-mount all source files used in the build
except `CMakeLists.txt` itself, since the details of how some editors manage
files prevent them from successfully updating individual files bind-mounted
into a container.

### Generating example models
To generate example models manually, build the test image and run the following
(assuming you are using the default image name, `triton_fil_test`):
```bash
docker run --rm -t --gpus all\
  -e RETRAIN=1 \
  -e OWNER_ID=$(id -u) \
  -e OWNER_GID=$(id -g) \
  -v "${PWD}/qa/L0_e2e/model_repository:/qa/L0_e2e/model_repository" \
  -v "${PWD}/qa/L0_e2e/cpu_model_repository:/qa/L0_e2e/cpu_model_repository" \
  triton_fil_test \
  bash -c 'conda run -n triton_test /qa/generate_example_models.sh'
```

### Running tests
To run all tests for a given build, developers can simply invoke the test image
with its default entrypoint as follows:
```bash
docker run -t --gpus all\
  -v "${PWD}/qa/logs:/qa/logs" \
  -v "${PWD}/qa/L0_e2e/model_repository:/qa/L0_e2e/model_repository" \
  -v "${PWD}/qa/L0_e2e/cpu_model_repository:/qa/L0_e2e/cpu_model_repository" \
  --rm triton_fil_test
```

### Testing Pre-built Server Images
It is occasionally useful to run tests on a Triton server image which has been
obtained from another source, such as a container registry. To test such an
image, it is recommended that developers make use of the `ci/gitlab/build.sh`
script, which is used for building and testing individual configurations in CI.
To run tests on a pre-built image, use the environment variable
`PREBUILT_SERVER_TAG`:
```bash
PREBUILT_SERVER_TAG=nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:21.11-py3 ./ci/gitlab/build.sh
```
This will build a test image based on this pre-built server image and run it.
For CPU-only builds, the environment variable `CPU_ONLY` should be set to 1.
